This directory contains two benchmark cases with reference results
that can be used to (roughly) assess the parallel performance of
FHI-aims on HPC platforms. 

These cases demonstrate both the scaling with number of CPU cores as
well as the expected approximate runtimes for FHI-aims on current
(2016) Intel Xeon hardware with a fast interconenct between nodes.

Two benchmark cases are supplied:

1) "Small" benchmark: Ac-Ala19-LysH+ molecule, light settings, 
   10 MD steps

      The benchmark times supplied in this case are the total
      runtimes for 10 MD steps. Since this is a "small" test case (220
      atoms, 2072 basis functions), scalability on a current (2016)
      HPC system is expected to extend up to several hundred CPU
      cores. 

2) "Large" benchmark: Graphene on SiC(0001), tight settings, 
   2 s.c.f. iterations 

      The benchmark times of interest in this case are the timings 
      for a single s.c.f iteration (e.g., s.c.f. iteration 1). Note
      that total times in this run include a significant component 
      from the initialization iteration. A complete run (converged
      s.c.f. cycle) would, however, be dominated by the time taken for
      each s.c.f. cycle. This system is expected to show excellent
      scaling up to several thousand CPU cores.

Reference output files are provided for 48 and 240 CPU cores for 1),
and for 240 CPU cores for 2), generated on the Max Planck Society's 
Hydra supercomputer. The CPUs used in these runs are Intel Sandy
Bridge-EP processors (each node has 16 cores @ 2.6 GHz each), dating
from 2012. The interconnect is a fast InfiniBand FDR14 network. The
"ARCHITECTURE" used in make.sys was "Generic" (using optimized AVX
kernels for the ELPA libary would likely generate faster code), and
Intel Fortran and MKL versions from 2016 were employed.

Benchmarks at a newer facility, the South African Centre for 
High-Performance Computing (CHPC)'s Lengau supercomputer (Intel Haswell 
processors, 2.6 GHz each, 24 cores per node) show a rough factor 
of 1.3-1.5 speedup per core, compared to the reference results provided 
here, also using Intel's tools in a 2016 version.

Example submit.sh scripts are specific to the PBS queueing system
and to the installation at CHPC

Two typical log-log scaling plots are also provided with the
benchmarks. 
