README file written by Volker Blum, 6/24/2011.

Predicting the low-energy structure of small clusters from scratch is
a surprisingly frequent task. There are many utilities out there in
the community, often home-grown, script-based, and adjusted to each
user's needs. That is just as well - in many cases, understanding how
a specific (in itself complicated) DFT&beyond code works and then
getting exactly what is needed for the much faster structure
prediction steps is the right way to go. 

That said - the present directory contains a working and usable
framework for a complete basin-hopping scheme that would predict the
structure of small clusters using FHI-aims. The code was written by
Ralf Gehrke (formerly of FHI), and if you find it useful, please cite
the following papers:


  R. Gehrke, P. Gruene, A. Fielicke, G. Meijer, and K. Reuter, 
  "Nature of Ar bonding to small Co+n clusters and its effect on the
  structure determination by far-infrared absorption spectroscopy",
  J. Chem. Phys. 130, 034306 (2009).

  R. Gehrke, K. Reuter,
  "Assessing the efficiency of first-principles basin-hopping sampling",
  Phys. Rev. B 79, 085412 (2009). 


You will find that the code is provided here as is, and with varied
and sometimes perhaps not up-to-date documentation (like old
control.in files for FHI-aims, which have been superseded by much
better versions). The reason is human time - a number of people are
using this tool successfully, but we do need someone to step up and
document the necessary steps properly, for instance in the Wiki. Until
then, please forgive us (me) for choosing to release the code and
documentation as is - it's actually not that hard to use.


Structure of this directory, and of the code:

* README - this file ... but there are further important READMEs and
           examples for the actual documentation

* effernir - the actual "meat": Early documentation and example by
           Ralf, as well as source code directory and makefile
           example. 

           Effernir is Ralf's chosen name for the code, and
           we keep it here. If you use it, please mention it. As of
           this writing, a quick Google search would make it appear
           that Effernir ui Niadri is otherwise a SF&F role playing 
           character, born on 1. Rahja, 14 v. Hal. 

* example_eli_beret - A set of working example files provided by Eli
           Beret (FHI). 

* example_ralf_gehrke - A much earlier set of working example files
           provided by Ralf Gehrke. 

* some_documentation - More verbose documentation by Ralf Gehrke, as
           well as a working example script by Dennis Palagin (TU
           Munich). 

Again: The big missing feature here is not the code (that's there) -
it would be a simple, current pdf document which documents the process
of using Effernir in a tutorial way, as well as complete documentation
of the input parameters specific to Effernir, and their meaning. If
anyone wishes to step up and maintain this, that would be great. If
not, here's a request: If you find anything that DOES NOT work as
intended, requires modifications to current FHI-aims, is
mis-documented and can be easily corrected - please notify us by
documenting that fact on the aimsclub Wiki - and consider contributing the
appropriate small adjustments to the "aimsfiles" development
repository of which this code is a part. Any FHI-aims user can have
access to the repositories upon request, and such contributions are
always highly welcomed - no need to reinvent the wheel multiple
times. 

