This directory contains an example of a transport calculation for a
system with two leads. The system is a chain of Au atoms. The
directory contains also two run-scripts that can be used to run the
example after adding a path to the local aims binary.

The work-flow executed by the two run-scripts is as follows:

1. Copy control.lead12 to control.in and geometry.lead1 to geometry.in.
2. Run aims to get the self-energy for the first lead. This will be in
the file 'lead_self_energy'.
3. Rename the file 'lead_self_energy' to lead_1.
4. Repeat the lead calculation for the second lead. The control.in can
stay the same but the geometry is from the file geometry.lead2.
5. Copy control.system to control.in and geometry.system to geometry.in.
6. Run aims to perform the transport calculation. The tunneling
probability will be written in the file 'tunne'.

Reference outputs for the runs are in files 'Au_chain_lead_1.out',
Au_chain_lead_1.out' and 'Au_chain_system.out'.

Notes:

1. It is possible to calculate transport properties for systems having
up-to four leads. In this case the steps 1.-3. needs to be repeated
for every lead. Not all the leads need to be similar or consist of the
same species.

2. Both the lead calculations and the calculation for the system are
periodic calculations. The direction of the transport is given by the
third lattice vector and it can be any direction. The transport
calculation uses only one k-point (Gamma) but in order to get
well-converged starting point for the transport calculation a
sufficient amount of k-points needs to be used for the
s.c.f. calculation of the system. Consequently, also control.system in
the test-case specifies a k-point grid.

3. No k-points are used in the transport calculation. In particular it
is not possible to use k-points in the directions perpendicular to the
transport direction. This means that in order to calculate a transport
through an interface of two infinite slabs large enough unit cell needs
to be used. So far this issue has not been investigated.